                                  ABAP Programming - Part2

                       Topic : Contol break structures/Control break statements

Pre-requisities : 1) Internal table should be in the sorted order.
                  2) Control break structures should be applied inside a loop.

AT FIRST -> It will trigger for the first iteration of the Internal table.
AT LAST -> It will trigger for the last ireration of Internal table.
AT NEW <FIELDNAME> -> Statements will execute for a group of records, having the same value for field name, but for the first time.
AT END OF <FIELDNAME> -> Statements will execute for a group of records, having the same value for field name, but for the last time.

IS NOT INITIAL -> IS NOT NULL, IS NOT BLANK.
IS INITIAL -> IS NULL, IS BLANK.


                                                Topic : OPEN SQL & NATIVE SQL
OPEN SQL -> Database Independent.
Native SQL -> Database Dependent.


                                             JOINS

1) With the help of joins, we can access data from muliple tables in single select statement.
    
  Types of JOINS
1) INNER JOIN - An inner join finds and returns matching data from tables based upon specified
                conditions.

   If one or more criteria are not met, no data records are created in the result set.

2) OUTER JOIN - Outer join finds and returns matching data and non-matching data from tables.

   Outer join is of 2 types.
   
   a) LEFT OUTER JOIN( LEFT JOIN) - The left outer join takes all the values from the left table 
      and combines them with the values from the right table that meet the criteria.   

   b) RIGHT OUTER JOIN( RIGHT JOIN) - The right outer join takes all the values from the right table 
      and combines them with the values from the left table that meet the criteria.   

 
                                                Topic : Best Coding Practises

1) Never Use * , Make a structure of those columns which are required in the output.
2) Fetching sequence should be same as that of structure sequence, otherwise type mismatch or wrong output will be there.
3) Fetching sequence should be same as that of Data Dictionary sequence.
4) Where condition sequence should be same as that of Data Dictionary sequence.
5) Never use corresponding keyword.
6) Use Binary Search in Read table.
7) For Fetching data from Foreign key tables/depenedent tables - check for SY-SUBRC , Internal table not Initial condition.
8) Use Paraller cursor in Nested loops.
9) For Mutiple conditions, Use CASE Instead of IF.


Paraller Cursor -> It's purpose is to achieve performance in case of nested loops.


                                           Topic : Transaction Code

Transaction Code : SE93( Create customer specific transaction codes)
The screen number of Selection screen is 1000.

Transaction code for Program and Selection screen.
Trasaction code for tables.

                                             Topic : Message class 


Messages always plays an Important role for End user.
Error( E) 
Warning/Information-> I
Success -> S


Transaction code for Message Class = SE91.

A message number is 3 characters long.( 000-999)

Syntax : 

MESSAGE E000(ZMSG_88).  
Where 
Message = Pre-defined keyword.
E =  Message Type
000 =  Message Number
ZMSG_88 = Message Class.
      

Q-1 : How to pass values to a message number?

Answer : & -> Operator which is used to pass values to a message number.

Q-2 : How many & can be passed to message number?

Answer : 4.



                            Topic : Classical Report Events

The program in which we are displaying the output with the help of WRITE statement is called as classical report.

1) Initialization - This events calls before displaying the selection screen/Input screen.
                     It's purpose is to assign  the default values to Parameters and Select-options.

2) AT Selection Screen -> This events calls when user performs some action( Enter, F4 etc) on to the selection screen.
                          It's purpose is to validate the Input.

3) START-OF-SELECTION -> This events calls when user clicks execute button on the selection screen.
                         The selection logic is the part of this event.

4) END-OF-SELECTION -> This Event calls when selection process ends.( Call after End of data/Records).

5) TOP-OF-PAGE -> The purpose of this event is to provide title/header at the begining of a new page.

6) END-OF-PAGE -> The pupose of this event is to provide footer or some information at the end of a page.
   Pre-requisite : We need to provide LINE-COUNT.
   Example - LINE-COUNT 5(2)  -> It means end of page event will trigger after 3 lines of data and 2 lines are reserved for the footer.( Total : 3+2 = 5).


                                     Topic : Interactive classical Report Events 

PF-STATUS -> Personal Functions( We can create our own functions).

The syntax to create own personal function( PF-STATUS) -> SET PF-STATUS 'STAT'.( STAT is the name of PF-status)

1) AT USER-COMMAND -> When user clicks on the button created by PF-status, at that time AT USER-COMMAND Event is triggering.
   system variable for User command -> SY-UCOMM.

2) AT LINE-SELECTION-> When user double clicks on the line or select a line and press F2, at that time AT LINE-SELECTION event will trigger.

    SY-LISEL - It is a system variable which returns the Contents of the selected line.
    SY-LSIND - It is a system variable which returns the Index of the displayed list. 
   

Q-1: What are the four parts of GUI status?
Answer : Menu Bar, Function Keys, Title Bar, Application Tool bar.

Q-2 : How many basic list are there in classical repoting?
Answer : 1.

Q-3 : How many secondary list are there in classical repoting?
Answer : 20.

Q-4: How to enable double click on a line While creating your own PF functions? 
Answer : You need to provide the function code for F2 in Recommended Function key settings.


                                            Topic : Field-Symbols

Field symbol is a placeholder for data object, which points to the value present at the memory address of a data object
at run time.


Link for Field-symbols:
https://blogs.sap.com/2017/09/05/dynamic-programming-in-abap-part-1-introduction-to-field-symbols/







                                                             



                                                
                                                     








       





   








































 
 
                          
  
 



   
 

       

   


